Technical Round - 1 

A.	Linux General Questions:

1)	What is difference between open source and close source operating system?  

2)	What are different flavours/distros of Linux are you familiar with?

3)	How would you check that a server is physical or virtual? 

4)	What is the structure of Linux, or what are the core components of the Linux OS?

5)	What is the difference between shell and Kernel?

6)	How can we check the hostname?

7)	What is the command to check the OS release?

8)	How can you find out the kernel version of a Linux system?

9)	What are binaries, and where are they stored?

10)	What is the purpose of the /boot and /etc directories?

11)	What does the /proc file system contain, and what is the size of this file system?

12)	What is the basic difference between the /bin and /sbin directories?

13)	Which file system contains system configuration files?

14)	What does the /opt directory/file system contain?

15)	What’s the purpose of uptime command?

16)	Which is the command to list all logged-in users?

17)	What does the pwd command used for?

18)	How can we create a directory?

19)	What does the -p flag mean in mkdir?

20)	How can you list the directory tree structure?

21)	How can we long list files and sort by time stamp?

22)	Difference between “>” and echo “>>” sign.

23)	How to list the metadata of a file or directory?

24)	How can we copy a file or directory while preserving the time stamp?

25)	How to read 2 different files and redirect the output into one larger file?

26)	What is the head command? How many lines does it show by default?

27)	What is tail command? How many lines does tail command show by default?

28)	What is the difference between “/var/log/secure” and “/var/log/messages”?

29)	How do you list the block devices?

30)	What are the slowest and fastest components of the system?

31)	List the last 15 messages from the file which contains authentication/security logs?


B.	Grep & Find Command:

32)	What is the grep command?

33)	What is the basic difference between the "grep" and "find" commands?

34)	How can I find the pattern/string "root" from the /etc/passwd file?

35)	How would you get all the lines that do not containing “root” string from “/etc/passwd” file?

36)	How can we obtain logs that pertain to "sshd" from the Security logs?

37)	Which flag would you use to ignore case sensitivity while you grep a pattern?

38)	Find all files under “/var/log/” that are older than 90 days and delete them.

39)	Search “zero” byte files in /tmp directory, use appropriate command to delete these files?

40)	How to search files created in last ten days in the current working directory and copy these files under /tmp directory?

41)	Find all the files that are larger than 5 MB in your whole system.


C.	Linux Permissions and Ownership:

42)	What is the difference between chown and chmod commands?

43)	Which command we use to change permissions of a file/directory?

44)	What are different type of permission groups in linux? 

45)	What are the different types of permissions in Linux?

46)	What are the numeric values that the system assigns for read, write, and execute?

47)	What are different ways to change the permissions of a file or directory?

48)	What does chown -R do?

49)	What is meant by chmod 777?

50)	How to change the user owner of a file?

51)	How can we modify the group on the file called "/etc/test" to be "devops"?

52)	What is the importance of the chgrp command?


D.	Vi Editor:

53)	Which is your preferred editor?

54)	What are the different modes of the vi/vim editor?

55)	How to quit Vim without saving any changes?

56)	How can you quit Vim while saving the changes you made?

57)	Why do we use "!" in addition to ":w" or ":wq" to quit?

58)	How would you move from the beginning of the line to the end of a line?

59)	How can you move back from the end of a line to the beginning of the line?

60)	How would you go to the last line of the file in vi or vim editor.

61)	How would you go back to first line of the file in vi or vim editor.

62)	How to switch to insert mode in Vi editor?

E.	Link Management:

63)	What are different types of links, you are familiar with?

64)	What is difference between a hard link and a symbolic link?

65)	What are symbolic link (symlink) or soft link and its purpose?

66)	How can a symbolic link be removed?

67)	How can a symbolic link be created? (Exact Syntax)

68)	What is a hard link and how is it created?
